Hey welcome back.
So in this challenge we are going to combine the knowledge that we've learnt in the last lecture but
also all the previous ones as well.
I do encourage that you do that.
It's not just about solidifying the knowledge that you've just learnt but it's also about combining
that with everything you've previously gone through as well.
Obviously with a focus on what you've just covered so in this particular lecture I'd like you to go
ahead and make a drop shadow for one of your icons then go ahead and make a silhouette of one of your
icons.
Does your icon work aged just a silhouette.
Then try making a reflection.
You can do this in several ways.
I would suggest using the layer transform and flipping it vertically.
That's just one.
Give it to go and then think of other uses for your selections as well.
I'd love to see what you guys can come up with and how creative you can be by using the selection tools.
And then finally of course I want you to share your work.
Be proud of how far you've come.
There's some amazing work out there.
So go ahead.
Balls and video now and give that ago.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's go ahead make a drop shadow.
A silhouette and a reflection.
Hey so welcome back.
The first thing I'm going to do is work on making a drop shadow so I'm going to go ahead and open up
one of my existing pieces of work to speed things along.
In fact I am going to do it to the jewel swords that we've worked on in the past and I'm going to see
if I can create a drop shadow so it actually gives our objects a bit more separation from one another
so that this top one is in fact casting a shadow underneath.
So I'm going to select that top sword sign over the top layer is the active layer.
The next thing I'm going to do is just think carefully about how I'm going to go ahead and select that
sword.
There are two ways that I can think of easily.
One is to select all the outer space all the parts that aren't the sort.
And one is to select just the sword itself with the magic wand.
Both of visa with the fuzzy Select Tool and with the threshold set all the way up to two under 55.
I'm going to do that one.
There we go.
I have selected my sword.
Now that I've done that I'm going to create a new layer and call it and drop shadow.
Okay.
Yeah that's that's good.
And then I'm going to using the blend tool I'm going to go from one side to another but not from black
to white.
In this case I want foreground to transparence because if I go from black to white and I have any other
colour background other than white it will look like it goes from black to white.
And it would look horrible.
So let's go ahead and draw that across.
It's more shadowed one side and not the other.
If I'm going to have more of it in shadow because there's the actual shadow itself is going to be sticking
out.
And of course this area here is completely faded.
I'm going to hold down control and snap.
That's about 45 degrees.
I'm not sure if that's now too dark.
We should try it by adding everything back in.
Of course the job shadow needs to be underneath the sword it represents but it needs to be on top.
Now what I could have done here is actually have moved the selection before doing that.
And named have coloured it in and then I have seen the effect live.
Instead what I'm going to have to do is with the drop shadow selected a hat and make sure move the active
layer is turned on.
I can then move that accordingly.
Now we go we've got a drop shallower Yeah.
Yes that is too dark.
I'm not liking that Orson.
You're going to burn that layer and this time move my selection slightly south.
Like that's yeah I'm liking that.
And then doing the same thing and this time new layer drop shadows fine.
And this time I'll be able to see what's happening.
Life rather than afterwards actually that's works out wonderfully and like in that already there we
go there's the drop shadow done.
Now was dummy here as well.
I can do a silhouette.
But I'm going to do a silhouette of both swords so I need to make sure that the drop show is hidden.
I don't want to include it in any of my selections and we use the selection tool again that this time
would sample the fuzzy selector.
But this time sample merge turned on.
Then I should be able to select everything in the House Select everything at that point in time.
I don't want the background.
So in this case I'm going to go the other way round the selected the transparency from my image sample
most off select transparent areas on and let's start the sword at the top and turn the threshold back
down to I think it was on 15 by the Flash be plenty.
So that's our first selection done and I wants to do in the intersection.
With this one here.
It's go to the source behind there and there we go.
It's cut out the area they're excellent and then the final thing is to go in with the shift key held
down.
Select these two blank areas here and with the other layer.
Those two areas there I think.
I'm not sure I think I've got everything I need to invert that selection so it's just the sword selected
and then I'm going to create a new layer and I'm going to call it silhouettes.
Can I spell silhouettes correctly.
I think that's right and let's use the fill tool to fill that in.
Excellent.
There's my silhouette.
Now does that work as a silhouette.
It's often said that if you cannot recognize what something is baia It's cellaret.
Then you need to work on it's a little more.
Now I don't know whether I'm using the fact that I know that's a sword.
I think that does kind of look like two swords cross but I'm not sure with them cross that it has the
same effect as if it was just one sword.
Because obviously you can't always tell.
I mean if we were doing something those space themed one sword might even look like a rocket.
So I'm liking what I've got there.
I'm now going to open up another image of them to save this one as I've added new layers and I can turn
them on and off as I want to.
And I'm going to go ahead and open up my shields.
Now when I put my shield.
I think.
It was in the Phil challenge.
There it is.
Says go ahead and zoom in.
So we have our shield here and then there's not going to be too much room for reflection.
And I've picked something that's circular here so we might not need to do a a reflection as such.
But what I'm going to do here yes I will need to flip it because we got a brighter part of the shield
so in the at it otherwise it won't really look like a reflection.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to create a new image and bring them in I'm going to work with a slightly taller image so
I'm going to work.
Sixty four thirty two I could probably get away with forty eight but we're going to zoom in and I'm
going to drag the shield on to that layer and drag it on again.
Through two shields on top of one another one of these is going to be the reflected shield someone to
put that in and called it reflection.
And then we've got the shield here as well.
So we've moved the shield up he says.
I've got selection turned on.
Make sure you've got the right tool enabled.
And then I'm going to remove the reflection down.
It's going to be reflected underneath.
Okay.
Now that doesn't look like a reflection at the moment.
We need to do a couple of other things.
Now reflections often strongest closer to the object even further away.
So what I could do here is with the selection tool enabled I am going to go for the rectangular selection
tool and I'm just going to select all I could just do everything on that layer.
That would work pretty well.
If I go ahead and create a new layer so I'm jumping about a bit here because I'm thinking on the fly
that we could have a reflection mask here instead.
Instead of having the entire image selected I'm going to have a reflection mask thirty two by 32 and
then I'm going to move the layer down.
So it's on top of the other shield.
That's what I wanted the first time round.
I will have my foreground colour as white.
I'm going to use the blend tool and go from white to transparent and start at the base of the shield
to the top of the shielding and a whole damn control so that's exactly vertical and don't do that a
couple of times there we go.
So that's now starting to look more and more like a reflection than anything else.
I'm liking the way that's looking but the reflection shield itself does need to be Flip's it's go to
layer.
Transform.
Flip that click.
There we go.
That is starting to look pretty good now.
The one thing of course I need to bear in mind here is that we have a background layer and if that was
some some other colour.
Let's go for my fire palettes that I had before.
So I got it here over in the gradients I've got my fire.
We'll go to Grady and I'm going to just put that there on the background.
So one of the issues here.
Let's see if I can get this in the right place.
Yeah.
I'm happy with where that gradient is now that's been a bit.
I had to play around with it a little.
But what I'm not do is I'm not fading into the background so I'm going to go ahead and use the arrays
tool and see if I can.
Get rid of what we had previously.
Okay.
I'm liking that short term the reflection layer off and then the background layer.
Yeah that's fine.
So I want to blend this out 10 nothingness.
So on the reflection with the blend tool we can see that it goes to a black so I can exploit that by
going to the reflection mask.
And this time going to a black as the foreground fell over rather than white.
So let's try that.
Obviously I need to change that from the fire back to foreground to transparent and and making sure
we can see that layer.
There we go.
That's much better.
So then to lift my shield up ever so slightly so all he says didn't have the move at all so we were
gonna raise that up just a little.
There's a little bit of separation between the two.
I like how that's come across.
Does look like your reflection in a dark murky water or something along those lines.
How did you guys get on.
I'd love to see your creations.
Please do share them over in the discussions and I as always I will see you in the next lecture.